The term *ethics* encompasses a philosophical science regarding insights on moral values, where *morals* again encompass good manners and intentions, a well-formed character as well as proper behavior. It thus immediately follows, that this field of knowledge only surfaces as soon as beings enter the scene; in a universe devoid of any life, ethics is impossible to reason about; the same would hold true if there was merely a single such being in existence.

In order to categorize carried out actions (which are simply causally-linked events, abstractly speaking) as "good" or "bad", or rather "positive" and "negative", aforementioned beings need to be conscious, as to become enabled to judge their experiences. For this context, it suffices to define being conscious as being aware not only of oneself and one's vehicle's sensory in- and outputs, but also the environment this shell dwells in. As can be observed in nature, life preserves itself by the means of a pleasure and pain feedback-system, which immediately corresponds to "positive" and "negative" experiences, by design; experiences which cause pain are to be avoided, while experiences which cause pleasure are to be strived for. Next to physical and thus more obvious stimuli, the psychological realm also dictates many ethical insights; although it can be argued that since consciousness cannot (provably) exist without a body, and since emotions directly correspond to chemical processes within the body (Molecules Of Emotion - an interesting read!), all such stimuli are realized via a physical phenomenon.

This natural system of self-correction is far from perfect, as we are able to derive pleasure from our mistakes, falling for the illusion of being on the right path; this fact creates a whole sub-field of ethical study. [The Ultimate Schematic](/philosophy/the-ultimate-schematic) captured this fact well.

As stated above, the common-ground of all beings is thus their pleasure and pain feedback-system, enabling them to categorize experiences as "positive" and "negative"; we all strive to minimize truly (considering the aforementioned imperfection of this system as well as various degenerations) negative events. From an ethical standpoint, it is completely irrelevant whether one being is bigger-, stronger-, more intelligent- or of longer lifespan than another, since they both have an equal potential to want to avoid harm of any sort.

Thereby, the very foundation on which ethical insights may be derived is to simply swap the roles for any action and honestly - without any self-deception - check, whether one's action would be aligned with their own feedback-system's consequences. This method is of course not infallible though, since some beings may be suffering from mental abnormalities, making it impossible to judge objectively (relative to the subject - the established common ground; as mentioned, there are no truly objective morals, because the object does not feel); due to this possible limitation, it is important to always check against the results of others and try to establish a common notion of what is right.

Ultimatively, the main goal of consciousness is to express free will to the greatest extent possible, as that is what causes an individual to become such: to be unique, to be aligned with the self. Unbounded free will would, in innumerably many instances, cause harm to others, which thereby again limits their own potential of expression; if the common goal is to expand free will without causing any harm to one another, the system will self-balance, ruling out some options, but maximizing the realm of possibilities equally for everybody. It is this optimum that is to be strived for, as there is no valid property distinguishing any two or more beings which would allow for asymmetrical restriction.

Our current society is great proof of the fact that this act of self-balancing is rather complicated, intricate and not at all easy to establish, as it relies mainly on trust and on the hope that the good manners one treats their opposite with eventually become reciprocal behavior, which sadly does not end up aligning with reality in quite a lot of cases. It is impossible to morally enforce morality, as this very act would overrule one's freedom; again, the system self-balances by the society at hand agreeing on a common threshold of which level of deviance from morality is to be treated as acceptable, while other missteps are replied with consequences, carried out by a third party, taking care of enforcing said morality. While it is immoral to do so, the level does not exceed the initial negativity and thus effectively minimizes the damage dealt overall.