The english author John Donne brought forth this simple yet profound statement in a sermon by the seventeenth-century, which is approximately equivalent with saying that no one is self-sufficient and everyone relies on others. When I first heard about this saying, it instantly resonated with my personal beliefs and stuck with me since then.

If only I got a penny for each and every occasion where somebody used the phrase *"that's none of your business"* as a knockout-argument against me, I'd never have to waste my energy on thinking about how to survive on this planet ever again. While that's a bit exaggerated, I think that we can still mostly agree on the fact that this opinion is used a lot whenever the opposite party exhausted their supply of logical arguments and are now just operating out of emotions and or an impulse.

There's no doubt that the human species is the most gifted and thus the mightiest amongst all yet known lifeforms on this earth, and with great power comes great responsibility. While that may sound cheesy initially, there's more to it than what meets the eye at first glance.

We're not just ideal machines, but also carry an emotional component with us, which acts accumulative, just like our knowledge does. While I am a big advocate of the theory that we're all equally intelligent and should thus be able to work equally efficiently on our goals, that's sadly not the full truth. First of all, emperical evidence strongly suggests that consciousness as we know it cannot exist without a body. It is this exact relationship which is responsible for what I call *intelligence dampening*. If this would not be the case, then a person who has been medically anesthetized should still be able to think clearly in their inner core and perform various mathematical operations, while in reality, they become a gibberish-spewing vegetable, at best.

There is a whole host of reasons for why intelligence may be dampened, where some are - as far as I know - even irreversible. Some of these would be bad lifestyle choices of the mother while carrying out her baby, bad lifestyle choices of the baby/teenager while growing up (likely forced upon them by their parents), epigenetic defects as well as emotional pain and suffering.

The point I want to get at is, that each being is currently operating at an efficiency between zero to one, where zero basically represents complete faint and one represents the best their body and emotions grant them. A psychologically healthy individuum should always strive towards the one, as basically all beings in nature did since the beginning of time, until one species lost track and applied it's intelligence in a destructive manner. Whenever one decides to deviate from their anatomical and emotional needs, they in effect lower their current score of efficiency.

I can already hear people screaming that this - again - is none of my business and that it's everybody's birthright to indulge in as much self-destruction as they'd like, *"as long as it doesn't hurt anybody else"* (as some of the more rational minds might add). But how do we know which decisions hurt whom, how far the wave of effect might ripple around? What do you think, does it hurt *me* if another human decides early on in life that all they live for is sex, drugs, not thinking about the future and optimizing for as much stimulation at any given moment in time as possible? *"No, you've got to be insane for even phrasing that question!"* Well, **"Of course it does, you ignorant fool!"**.

I might have gotten carried away a bit right there, let's get back on track. It should be obvious that the individual lifespan is a spec of dust, not only in the grand scheme of things, but also "locally"-speaking. While we really do live in quite the modern era, it took a lot (and I really mean a *lot*) of intelligent- and physical effort to get here. Could we have gotten to this point quicker if more people took life seriously and scientists, philosophers as well as logicians wouldn't be the vast minority of the population? Sure! But we still heavily rely on each other, as the amount of information required to get anywhere of any significance would crush a single person.

From this simple fact I derive that we, *each and* **every** *one of us*, carries the responsibility of being the best that they can be so that the individual may gain access to whatever is required to fully unfold their creativity and add what they have in store for the rest of humanity to our library of knowledge and ability. There have been countless cases spread out during all of known history where great minds have been suffocated by the immense stupidity and infantility of others (wars, crime, violence, discrimination, etc.), who could have revolutionized our ways of thinking significantly. We cannot judge the potential of others by looking at them, just as we cannot judge a book by it's cover. For as long as we don't ensure equal opportunities for everybody, great minds and thus great progress will be lost along the way, inevitably.

The reason for why we're in such a dilemma as a species is that most of us live in total ignorance and do not even consider what I'm talking about as an option. Life can be like a movie: a temporary illusion, that's only lifted shortly before it ends, shortly before it's already too late to become truly conscious. I challenge you to take a few minutes out of your life in order to calmly sit down and think about how it would feel like if you'd have to die tomorrow. After this event, there's no more interaction with anybody else, no more working on your projects, no more thinking, feeling or having an impact on this world in general. Your potential has been driven straight to zero from one instant to another. There's no question that this day will come, the only uncertainty may be when it does. Doesn't this simple yet unavoidable fact make every second of the time where we *do* have an impact become inexpressively valuable? The decisions we make now affect what our successors are able to experience, and what's withheld from them. Don't be tricked into believing that this doesn't affect you, as you're the successor relative to your predecessors!

To me, personally, our existence as a species resembles that of a disorganized ant colony. We're not working together, but rather prefer competition and mutual sabotage. We're not organizing all of our knowledge centrally and making it available for everybody else, but are scattering it all throughout various media while failing horribly at conveying it to our offspring. Over a long enough timeperiod, we will inevitably loose a great deal of this hard earned wisdom due to our shortcomings. We're not communicating and planning ahead efficiently, as not only needless long-distance employments with daily commute show, but as also the complete fiasco of finding likeminded companions of uncommon characteristics reflects.

Instead of having compassion for each other, we reply with anger, hatred and violence to one another's suffering. This exact reason is why the importance of turning inwards, of becoming your own best companion, is now more important than it ever has been. Sadly, many people are struggling with this concept and escape into temporary, external distraction. It is not at all suprising that there's an all time high in the number of cases of depression as well as suicide, as you can only distract yourself from reality for so long. To thrive in a dying world has not only become a true challenge, but an art.

The idyllic vision of a society that managed to fully unfold it's potential and strives towards greatness with full acceleration is what keeps me busy during my daydreams. It is impossible to express the impact this difference would have not only on this planet, but on each of it's inhabitants. *Even if the ideal cannot be reached, it should still be held in high esteem*. While I honestly have already given up the hope of us ever reaching the ideal, I still wholeheartedly believe that we can form little spheres of sanctuary for those that came to the same conclusions and thus at least spend the rest of our lives while working on something meaningful together, in communities, as it was intended by mother nature all along.