While many people love to throw around the loaded-term called *relationship*, I seriously doubt that most could give an accurate definition beyond superficial outlines from the top of their head. A popular answer will likely always merely be *"that person I have sex with"*; but what if one is not interested in acting out or cultivating said desires? This single criteria causes the definition to collapse when challenged rather quickly.

As described in [Interpersonal Relations](philosophy/interpersonal-relations), the desire to establish a bond with somebody else can be caused by a multitude of underlying motivators; under the premise of having excluded the aforementioned primal drive from this set, I no longer see a single reason as to why even one of these desires could not be satiated through the means of a typical friendship. Yet, this lingering, seemingly deeply rooted aspiration resides within many of us, even those who label themselves as asexual - including myself. This page will serve as an outlet for my personal musings regarding this profound emotional component of human beings.

Even though there exists a concept called *"cuddle-buddies"*, which represents exchanging non-sexual physical attention with either just recently met acquaintances or also friendships exceeding a certain established level of trust and affection, a non-negligible amount of people still value this very personal activity to a point that begs the question of whether or not the level of a friendship suffices. Next to actively seeked out sessions of physical attention, various caring gestures throughout the day may also be included into the previously described concept; but there's another manifestation: holding hands, kissing, hugging, etc. in public - clearly a statement to affect one's social image. While I do not care about mainstream's opinion and thereby do not ascribe much value to the latter, the meaning of cuddles and caring gestures by themselves is on a yet unmatched level of significance to me, which is the reason as to why I will keep them in mind as a defining candidate of relationships.

Since it is not unheard of to share a flat with friends, living together by itself does not seem to be that intimite of an act for most people; it would most definitely be for me. Yet another motivation which should (in any healthy setting, really) rely on living together would be raising children; as an anti-natalist myself, the only remaining potential situation would be that of adoption, which - while I'd love to provide a young soul with the knowledge we need early on - is not a likely case either, as I am aware of the fact that I'm mentally ill and should therefore first fix myself before I try to take care of any other being - be it of humanoid or animalistic nature. What would also have to be weighed against each other is the effect taken on the world by devoting one's life to a single individual, versus spending the time to build systems like Arcadia and Tagnet, as to help various people out of their misery worldwide. Challenging long-term projects like these would also flourish under the influence and support of a wholesome relationship.

To make a mutual promise in regard to the common journey's longevity, as widespread by marriage, adds yet another illusionary layer of safety and importance to many relationships; but to which extent does there ever come anything good from trying to overrule your future self based on emotions in the now? While it is of course necessary to guide and support one's opposite through a variety of dark and challenging episodes in their life, there is not much value in repeatedly sweeping red flags, colliding values or just unhealthy behavior under the rug, only to prevent what is already crumbling from finally caving in. A popular phrase, namely *"to choose your partner again each day"*, does have some weight to it, but since the concept by itself introduces a lot of uncertainty - that which already governs all of life and is tried to be mitigated by lasting bonds - cannot be the final conclusion either; don't get me wrong, one has to constantly re-evaluate and course-correct in order to not end up getting stuck within an unhappy state of life, but there has to be a severely stronger basis of solid values and similarities already in place, as to act like the required foundation.

One immediately obvious difference between friend- and relationships, at least amongst those who possess a certain level of conscience, is that while the former may be attained rather quickly based on a few common interests, the latter depends on more strict criteria, from which follows that there will be a stronger feeling of perceived meaning. This simple yet profound distinction implies the act of *"reserving oneself for the right person"* - a concept I myself view as immensely beautiful and honorable. What makes a person be the *right* match? Simple - the paths taken throughout life need to overlap to a certain degree, as to allow for sincere empathy and compassion to take place. A relation which requires to not only explain, but also defend and justify every little detail of one's own character, just to then be misunderstood or even ridiculed for having opened up, will cause needless trauma and further retraction; on the other hand, somebody who went through similar struggles and came to alkie conclusions will have a much easier time in understanding and comforting their opposite.

By trying to summarize the thoughts above, I'll put forth the following definition of a relationship, made up of individual points, which only apply as a whole:

- Exchanging physical attention by the means of cuddles as well as various caring gestures throughout the day
- The potential trust to live together
- Mutual support for each other's long-term goals
- Full agreement on a set of solid moral- and intellectual values
- Reserving these special interactions for each other
- Sufficing similarity of the paths taken through life
- The ability to openly communicate without having to compromise on the truth and reality of the intention

While there are likely a few points I may be missing, one must not forget that there's a whole can of worms hidden behind the point of agreeing values; these make up for the majority of the criteria applied when it comes to evaluating matches.