If a conscious being should be able to willfully and purposefully influence it's environment, it has to know beforehand with which probability any given action will evoke the desired effect, reliably. "If I act out on my intention I, assuming the circumstances C, the effect E occurs with a likelihood of P." These are the kind of statements that scientists are able to formulate, after observing the environment, conducting experiments and deriving the consequences of newly gathered knowledge, while engineers apply them in a technical fashion.

From this omnipresent dependency, it logically follows, that the laws of nature are a requirement to act willfully in the first place. It's also implicitly given, that a conscious being needs to be empowered to recognize these laws after a finite number of experiments and logical derivations. It is not necessary for one being to be able to understand the whole universe in it's own lifetime, as our universe proves, which is why we are relyant on each other.

While it is generally true that, the more complex a system gets, the higher the complexity of it's fully descriptive law is, approximative models have proven themselves as very valuable shortcuts nonetheless. This simplification is not true for what we call chaotic systems, which occur whenever two or more sufficiently complex systems interact, due to the sheer number of permutations that arise. A very small nudge in its input parameters may result in a considerably large nudge on its output. Inertia, which pervades every part of the universe, only increases this unpredictability.

Day-to-day tasks may be simple enough so that they can be handed to muscle memory, which is not doing a lot of predictive work, but long-term goals of any significance most definitely are to be treated differently. Their accomplishment is comprised of a set of non-trivial actions, which are not only depending on each other, but on the state of their environment at the time of execution. This simple fact demands for dynamic course correction at any moment, as well as for re-interpretation of the circumstances.

Since it is true that the human being is empowered to understand the laws of nature, it is not at all far fetched to assume that its stay on this earth should be made up of more than just the mundane and superficial tasks that do not require intensive thought- and predictive processes. Otherwise, we would be talking of an immense waste of potential, and thus of unworthy behavior.

With all of the above in mind, I conclude that it is only natural for us to dwell in the spheres of logic and philosophy, exercising our full potential and following long-term goals. Since long-term goals require significant amounts of intrinsic motivation, key factors of those who manage to bring their visions to fruition are passion, attachment as well as dedication.

Due to the fact that one lifetime is severly limited and we - as human beings - are aware of this limitation, it is nothing short of rational that we tend to carry thoughts about these long-term goals throughout our day-to-day life, in order to use time as efficiently as possible. This behavior is the reason for why most logicians are considered to be "daydreamers" by those who did not yet see the bigger picture.

Judging mostly from my own experience, the above is also often frowned upon under the umbrella term of "overthinking". I have been told many times, especially by those that mean and have meant a lot to me, that I should let go and, instead, increase my presence in the here and now. While it is certainly true that obsession does negatively influence it's practitioner, and while there's some truth to the statement that "strength is to be found in serenity", I still wholeheartedly believe, that the destructiveness of telling somebody that their true nature is to be suppressed by far outweighs the little positivity that would arise from doing so.

This thoughtless accusation not only denies the victim it's greatness, but also denies the whole world whatever they might come up with by channeling the majority of their mental energy into meaningful long-term goals, as new knowledge broadens the spectrum of free will. We are standing on the shoulders of giants, without whom life would not be recognizable as we know it.