Since very early on in my life, I daydreamed about all of the great things I may achieve and get to experience some time later down the road, if only I somehow manage to keep up hope and stay persistent until then. The point "then" seems like a carrot, dangling on a stick in front and not approaching me by any significance. Whether one would categorize it as a gift or a curse, I have the ability to recognize and appreciate a non-negligible subset of what is actually possible within this universe I find myself in. The stream of possibilities running through my head at all times seems unendingly.

I notice how the universe wants us to interact with it, influencing it responsibly, as a community and most importantly, in a positive manner (positivity being determined through feedback systems). The undeniable fact that we, as specs of dust within this existence, have been given the ability to analyze and understand the logic behind the vast majority of the functional principles in charge makes me conclude that we're supposed to act out on our curiosity to our full potential at all time, each and every one of us.

Yet, only a select few reach the greatness of discovering these seemingly open principles that are hiding in pure sight, waiting for us to notice them. In many of us, the mentioned curiosity almost died off, leaving it at the absolute bare minimum to lead a somewhat successful stay on this earth. Some still contain this drive within them, buried below years or even decades worth of negative experiences, ending up with - in effect - a broken and quenched out free will. We're caught so deeply in escapism as a species that we almost completely forgot about our true nature, hiding below all these layers of pain and suffering that we only brought upon ourselves.

Often times throughout the week, I think about great minds like Euclid, Archimedes, Euler, Tesla and the like, asking myself the question of what differentiates them from the average person. Why are some people set on a path for greatness, while others have to be content with mediocrity? I will never give up the hope that every person can still turn around and enter this paradise, so to speak. Instead of holding on to the dogma that there is a mostly unchangable score of intelligence attached to us at birth, I'd rather believe that we're all made of equally high intelligence, which is dulled by layers and layers of negative experiences since birth. One needs to learn to not only come to terms with these, but to rise above them, uncovering the true core, the self. Quite a hard-to-reach goal in a world full of distractions and energy vampires. As sad as it sounds (and believe me, this breaks my heart), I think that in our current state, we have to abandon the concept of community and turn inwards, relying on ourselves, to thrive in a dying world.

I don't know whether I'll ever reach this state and whether I'll get to experience everything I have and will set out for myself. The latter is highly unlikely, which is why I inescapably need to set priorities. This feels like choosing your most favorite child out of all your children, like a cold and heartless act, but I have no other options, besides becoming paralyzed over these inevitable constraints and - in the end - reaching absolutely nothing at all.

If only there was a way to unite these like-minded people who came to similar conclusions and are now reaching for greatness, being pulled right back down by their negative environment. As long as great minds are kept being dispersed, there will be suffering on their end. As long as one is stuck in the prison of self-protective isolation, their true potential cannot be unfolded. I sincerely hope that I manage to come up with a solution for this misery within my remaining lifetime and end up at the happy place I've been invisioning for all of my life...