I claim that it is simply impossible to view reality in its full glory, and that approximations are our only means of interacting with what really is.

While it may sound like an excerpt of a science-fiction movie for some people, it is quite possible that we live in a simulation. This does not imply that there's a scientist who has built the engine of this simulation and is now watching every move of their targets of interest, but rather that this universe just isn't at the core of the onion, so to speak. This theory is likely not refutable, but still worth thinking through at least once, in my opinion. The big bang, which is very, very likely to have happened, would represent the point $t_0$ in this simulation, where a bunch of energy, concentrated into a single point, has been released into the void that now, governed by a few laws, creates all that is, over time.

The main indicator is that our universe doesn't seem continuous, but rather appears to be rasterized. Restrictions like the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_units" target="_blank">Planck Units</a>, the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncertainty_principle" target="_blank">Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle</a> and the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_of_light" target="_blank">Speed Of Light</a> suggest that there are hard limits which cannot be surpassed. If this truly was the case, then the concept of continuousness will merely remain a part of pure mathematics and thus of our imagination, but will not be reflected within reality itself.

No matter if reality is "real" or simulated, it just *is*. It's inhabitants, no matter if conscious or even organic, *just function*. It does not matter whether we discover the laws of nature, they still hold and govern every single action.

If one wants to predict reality in order to increase their ability to express themselves (as mentioned in [The Nature Of Thinking](./the_nature_of_thinking.md)), they need to enter the scientific process. But what comprises this process? It's the sequence of making observations, asking questions, conducting experiments, creating hypotheses, gathering and analyzing data, making conclusions, sharing knowledge and ensuring repeatability.

So, I conclude that *in order to predict reality, one needs to simulate reality*.

An equation which describes a natural process is in essence simulating it, so that we are in full control of its parameters and thus its environment and can then extrapolate into various spaces of interest. It does not matter whether it is the human brain that carries out these calculations and measurements, or whether it's a computer system with sensors attached, as both are "computers" in the true meaning of the word, just that one computes using biological processes while the other operates on solely electrical processes.

Next up, I claim that a simulation can neither exceed nor even reach the information density and compute speed of it's host. That is, because for each step of the simulation, multiple steps within the host are required.

(This would imply that the previously mentioned "core of the onion", the innermost reality, if truly continous and instantaneous, would allow it's simulations to be instantaneous as well, so somebody decided on artificially limiting the speed of execution.)

Every computer known to humanity, no matter how efficient, does not manage to compute in a $1:1$ ratio, so there will always be simulation overhead. The fully descriptive edition of the laws of nature would be comprised of more information than this universe can hold, due to them having the same size as the host has, and the host can only offer less memory than has been reserved for it as a whole. Even if there was a way to store it, it could not be simulated in real time, since it would take exactly as many steps as reality takes, thus effectively requiring the host to simulate twice as much during the same unit of time, which is simply not possible.

As <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Sagan" target="_blank">Carl Sagan</a> said, "*If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe*". Differently stated, this means that if you wish to describe any process within the universe, you'll end up describing them all, since they're all interlocked, due to the law of cause and effect. This simple fact also excludes the option of only simulating a small subset of the laws of nature to their full extent, as no system is truly isolated. Isolation is just yet another concept of our imagination, which aids the approximative process.

Due to all of the above it thus simply isn't possible to witness reality in it's full glory, but only through the lens of approximation. Luckily for us, the picture this lens projects is still by far exceeding what we can grasp, and thus leaves not much left to desire.